large-scale satellite dishes can have an
imposing presence but what do they
really do and what impact do they have
for us on earth
[Music]
space is a source of endless fascination
but it's not just about discovering what
surrounds us in our solar system and
beyond we've also been able to use space
to help better connect us on earth
satellite communication first allowed us
to communicate over huge geographical
distances through transmitting and
receiving audio and video through radio
waves
Goonhilly was actually used for the
first transatlantic television pictures
over satellite through the Telstar
satellite so this was first
demonstration of what sunlight
communications might be used for NASA
which had been formed in 1958 they had
an earlier idea of using project relay
which was to test telecommunications via
satellite and the British post office
were talking to NASA about experimenting
with project relay the American
telephone and telegraph company were
thinking wait a minute why are NASA a
space organization messing around with
telecommunications satellites this is
our job so they in their labs had been
working on a project called TSX which
subsequently became known as Telstar and
they decided they were gonna launch tau
star before relay and this was your
first demonstration July 1962 of
television across the Atlantic and of
course the thing is once you've got
communication between men on television
new things think well why not telephone
calls as time progressed of course it
went on to data communications and then
the internet so sound like
Communications was about getting
information from A to B or anywhere
across the across the visible globe on
the Far southwestern tip of the UK a
site was chosen to be the location of
several large satellite dishes with the
aim of helping to link up the world
through radio waves 1965 was the first
of the commercial geostationary
satellites 36,000 kilometers it was
placed over the Atlantic Ocean region so
that allowed the USA and South America
to communicate with Europe and they then
put a satellite over the Pacific Ocean
region so then the western side of the
USA and South America could communicate
with Asia Japan Australia etc and then
they put one over the end
Oshin region which meant Europe to
communicate with angels as well by 1969
when Goonhilly had two dishes
operational here Goonhilly number one
there was operating to the Indian Ocean
region and Goonhilly two that was
operating to the Atlantic Ocean region
so the UK could get to both these ocean
regions clearly it couldn't get to the
Pacific Ocean because you can't see the
Pacific Ocean from the UK so in order to
get to that side you'd have to go a
double hop so you'd hop say to American
and hop again to another satellite as
well as enabling large-scale
communication and broadcast networks
we've also been able to learn more about
our planet through satellites monitoring
earth from high above the surface earth
observation could be looking at
deforestation for example fires
occurring sea levels how much they're
rising lowering how the tides are
changing all these kinds of things are
happening through earth observation
satellites climate change is being
monitored and in fact without those
spacecraft and what they've discovered
over the years we wouldn't know half as
much about greenhouse gases as we know
today so from from out in space we're
looking at what is man doing to this
earth and then we can come up with with
with the mitigation once people started
to realize these that you could get
cameras on satellites high quality
cameras to actually see down to the
finest detail or what something on earth
and of course if you've got navigation
as well sat-nav for example I mean now
you can point out to less much less than
a meter an area on earth with
technological advances and changes in
how communication networks operate many
of the systems that rely it upon the
infrastructure of sites such as GaN
Healey and no longer needed in their
original form
but this is not the end of the story for
Boone Healy as work is underway to bring
a new lease of life to the area and once
again launch this iconic site to the
forefront of satellite communication so
what is the future for Goonhilly it
looked like the way ahead for satellite
was for mobile communications but then
also you have of course when the
internet came along you have landlocked
countries where submarine cables don't
work so the middle of Africa for example
you can't use submarine cables to get to
them
so again satellites were the way in
which you could bring communications to
learn locked countries linked to that of
course you've then got deep space
network communications where you have
masses of kiman of of spacecraft out
there some may be for earth monitoring
environmental monitoring weather
monitoring deep-space missions going out
to find more about the solar system
missions to moon Mars etc and that's
where Goonhilly antennae number six
comes in because it's perfectly designed
for that kind of deep space network
operations what is happening more
recently is with it so much more being
put in low-earth orbit the debris that
is out there is becoming a problem not
least when you're launching something
out and you've got to make sure you miss
anything that's in the way so you have
to know where all these bits of debris
are and put your launch time accordingly
so you miss it there are no many many
people working on space debris looking
at ways of harpooning it magnetizing
getting or those kinds of things you've
got fine ways of avoiding debris
impacting on our future
so with the drive to explore and
understand more about what lies beyond
our atmosphere satellite technology will
continue to have a role but we're also
discovering even more about our own
planet through our ventures into the
solar system the data we collect through
communicating with devices orbiting far
above our planet could unlock further
secrets about our place in the universe
as we further explore and utilize the
resources of space on earth
[Music]
you